README.md, before:

<h1>Travel|Pix</h1>
<br>
<p> <strong> A social media site used for interacting with people who share a common interest in looking at images from around the world </strong> </p>

[View the live project here.](website link/)

Home Page Image - [View]( https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-19%20at%2016.09.37.png)

# Table of Contents
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Structure](#structure)

# Project Overview
- This project is a website that allows users to add/edit/delete travel images  for submission as milestone project 4 as part of the Code Institute - Diploma in Software Development (Full stack) course.
- The website is deployed using Heroku pages.
- The repository on GitHub that contains the website source code, media and assets.
- The website was built with a responsive look and feel for desktop, tablet and mobile devices.

# UX
## Strategy
### Primary Goal
The primary goal of the website from the site 
owners perspective is as follows:
- To create/edit/delete travel posts so users can add a memory to a vacation.
- To allow users add their travel posts(name, image, title, description).
- To allow users modify their travel posts(image, title, description).
- To allow users delete their travel posts.
- To allow users view both their own posts and other posts.
- To allow users comment on a post.
- To allow users like a post.

The primary goal of the website from a site users perspective is as follows:
- To allow users add their travel posts(name, image, title, description).
- To allow users modify their travel posts(image, title, description).
- To allow users delete their travel posts.
- To allow users view both their own posts and other posts.
- To comment on a post and view comments.
- To allow users like a post.

## Structure
### Website pages
I have structured the website with clear, concise structure, information and purpose. I use the Bootstrap grid system throughout, which gave a consistent structure and responsive design "out of the box"
1. Home/Landing Page: This is the first page the user encounters when they access the site, before they log in/register. They have the ability to open the travel posts however cannot interact with the post.
2. Register: This page allows the user to register an account to interact with all posts.
3. Login: This page allows the user to login to the site.
4. Add Post: This page allows the user to add a travel post.
5. Edit Post: This page allows a user to edit a travel post they have created.
6. Delete Post: This button allows a user to delete a travel post they have created.
7. Logout: This link allows the user to logout of the site.
8. 404: The 404 error page is displayed if the user enters an incorrect url when accessing the site.

### Database
- The website is data-centric with html, javascript and css used with the bootstrap(version 5) framework as a frontend
- The backend consists of Python built with the Django framework with a database of a Postgres for the deployed Heroku version(production)

#### Models
- The following models were created to represent the database model structure for the website

##### Account Model
- The Account model has a one-to-one relationship with User.
- The model contains the following fields: image, slug, bio
Friends.

#####  Friend Model
- The Friend model is part of the Django allauth library.
- The model allows users to follow another user.

##### Post Model
- The Post model contains information about the travel posts made on the website.
- It contains User as a foreign-key.
- The model contains the following fields: title, slug, suthor, featured_image, exerpt, updated_on, content, created_on, status and likes.

##### Comment Model
- The Post model contains a comment on a post
- It contains Post as a foreign-key.
- The model contains the following fields: name, body, created_on, approved.

## Scope
There is overlap in terms of user stories for the two types of users, and they are described below
### User Stories Potential or Existing Customer
The user stories for the registered user are described as follows: 
- User Story 1.1: As a first time/registered user the navigation bar is displayed with a logo on all pages with a home icon, add post and Register/Login icon on a desktop device.
- User Story 1.2: As a first time/registered user the navigation bar is displayed on all pages with a home icon, add post icon and Register/Login on a mobile/tablet device
- User Story 1.3: As a first time/registered user not logged in, I see a Register/Login link in the nav bar.
- User Story 1.4: As a first time user, I can register by clicking on the Register button. The form asks me for the following details: *****. If I click sign up, account is now registered and I am redirected to the home page, If I click cancel I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 1.4: As a registered user not logged in, I am brought to the Login link if I click on the login button.
- User Story 1.5: As a first time / registered user logged in, I am brought to the home page if I click on the home icon / the TravelPix title or image.
- User Story 5.3: As a first time/ registered user if there are more than six posts on the home page, the page is paginated with 6 posts per page
- User Story 1.7: As a registered user logged in, I see a Logout on the nav bar. 
- User Story 1.9: As a registered user logged in, if I click on the plus icon on the nav bar I am brought to the add post page. The form asks me for the following details: **** If I click post, my post will be added to the home screen and I will be redirected to the home screen. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.9: As a registered user logged in, if I click on my post in on the home page I am directed to the post detail page. I am able to edit my post and delete my post. I am unable to edit and delete posts made by other users.
- User Story 1.10: As a registered user logged in, if I click on the Logout button on the navbar I am brought to the Logout page. If I click Logout I am Logged out. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.21: As a first time / registered user if I encounter an error on the site, I will be navigated to the applicable 404 error page.
- User Story 4.1: As a registered user I can log in to the website using my username and password. Both fields are mandatory. Once correct, I will be navigated to the homepage and a message displayed.
- User Story 5.4: As a first time / registered user if I click on a post I will be navigated to the post detail page.
- User Story 5.5: As a first time / registered user I can view the image, description, the number of likes and view comments (the most recent comment first). If I click the back button I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 5.1: As a registered user logged in I can comment and like users posts. When I add a comment to a post, it is sent to the admin for approval and I am notified.
- User Story 5.14: As a first time / registered user who has not logged into the website, I cannot add a comment or like a post
- User Story 1.1: As a first time / registered user the footer bar is displayed on all pages with copyright and links to the social media pages.


### User Stories Website Owner
The user stories for the website owner(admin) are described as follows: 
There is a lot of overlap between the two user types, the admin user however has more administrative rights throughout but their roles and responsibilities
are defined
- User Story 1.1: As an admin user the navigation bar is displayed with a logo on all pages with a home icon, add post and Register/Login icon on a desktop device.
- User Story 1.2: As an admin user the navigation bar is displayed on all pages with a home icon, add post icon and Register/Login on a mobile/tablet device
- User Story 1.3: As a admin user not logged in, I see a Register/Login link in the nav bar.
- User Story 1.4: As an admin user not logged in, I am brought to the Login link if I click on the login button.
- User Story 1.5: As a user logged in, I am brought to the home page if I click on the home icon / the TravelPix title or image.
- User Story 5.3: As an admin user if there are more than six posts on the home page, the page is paginated with 6 posts per page
- User Story 1.7: As an admin user logged in, I see a Logout on the nav bar. 
- User Story 1.9: As an admin user logged in, if I click on the plus icon on the nav bar I am brought to the add post page. The form asks me for the following details: **** If I click post, my post will be added to the home screen and I will be redirected to the home screen. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.9: As a admin user logged in, if I click on my post in on the home page I am directed to the post detail page. I am able to edit my post and delete my post. I am unable to edit and delete posts made by other users.
- User Story 1.10: As an admin user logged in, if I click on the Logout button on the navbar I am brought to the Logout page. If I click Logout I am Logged out. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.21: As an admin user if I encounter an error on the site, I will be navigated to the applicable 404 error page.
- User Story 4.1: As an admin user I can log in to the website using my username and password. Both fields are mandatory. Once correct, I will be navigated to the homepage and a message displayed.
- User Story 5.4: As an admin user if I click on a post I will be navigated to the post detail page.
- User Story 5.5: As an admin user I can view the image, description, the number of likes and view comments (the most recent comment first). If I click the back button I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 5.1: As an admin user logged in I can comment and like users posts. When I add a comment to a post, it is sent to the admin for approval and I am notified.
- User Story 5.14: As an admin user who has not logged into the website, I cannot add a comment or like a post
- User Story 1.1: As an admin user the footer bar is displayed on all pages with copyright and links to the social media pages.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can view email addresses, who they belong to and if they have been verified in the django admin page. I have the option to add and change an email address.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can view users and groups. I have the option to add and change a user and a group.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change an account.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a comment. I also can approve users comments. Once approved users will be able to see their comment on the post detail page.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a friend. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a post. I can see who created the post, when and if it is published or a draft.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a site. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a friend. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change social accounts. 

## Skeleton
### Wireframes
- Wireframes for the website were developed in Balsamiq and are linked below for Desktop and Mobile devices.
- The wireframes are stored in GitHub in the png format and are available at the links below(Desktop Mobile wireframes)

#### Desktop 
- [Index](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-19%20at%2017.26.21.png)
- [Post Detail](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.25.37.png)
- [Login](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.28.53.png)
- [Logout](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.31.53.png)
- [Add Post](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.35.30.png)
- [Register](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-21%20at%2017.07.12.png)

#### Mobile

Commit message:

Adding color palette to the README file and updating the css file

README.md, after:

<h1>Travel|Pix</h1>
<br>
<p> <strong> A social media site used for interacting with people who share a common interest in looking at images from around the world </strong> </p>

[View the live project here.](website link/)

Home Page Image - [View]( https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-19%20at%2016.09.37.png)

# Table of Contents
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Structure](#structure)

# Project Overview
- This project is a website that allows users to add/edit/delete travel images  for submission as milestone project 4 as part of the Code Institute - Diploma in Software Development (Full stack) course.
- The website is deployed using Heroku pages.
- The repository on GitHub that contains the website source code, media and assets.
- The website was built with a responsive look and feel for desktop, tablet and mobile devices.

# UX
## Strategy
### Primary Goal
The primary goal of the website from the site 
owners perspective is as follows:
- To create/edit/delete travel posts so users can add a memory to a vacation.
- To allow users add their travel posts(name, image, title, description).
- To allow users modify their travel posts(image, title, description).
- To allow users delete their travel posts.
- To allow users view both their own posts and other posts.
- To allow users comment on a post.
- To allow users like a post.

The primary goal of the website from a site users perspective is as follows:
- To allow users add their travel posts(name, image, title, description).
- To allow users modify their travel posts(image, title, description).
- To allow users delete their travel posts.
- To allow users view both their own posts and other posts.
- To comment on a post and view comments.
- To allow users like a post.

## Structure
### Website pages
I have structured the website with clear, concise structure, information and purpose. I use the Bootstrap grid system throughout, which gave a consistent structure and responsive design "out of the box"
1. Home/Landing Page: This is the first page the user encounters when they access the site, before they log in/register. They have the ability to open the travel posts however cannot interact with the post.
2. Register: This page allows the user to register an account to interact with all posts.
3. Login: This page allows the user to login to the site.
4. Add Post: This page allows the user to add a travel post.
5. Edit Post: This page allows a user to edit a travel post they have created.
6. Delete Post: This button allows a user to delete a travel post they have created.
7. Logout: This link allows the user to logout of the site.
8. 404: The 404 error page is displayed if the user enters an incorrect url when accessing the site.

### Database
- The website is data-centric with html, javascript and css used with the bootstrap(version 5) framework as a frontend
- The backend consists of Python built with the Django framework with a database of a Postgres for the deployed Heroku version(production)

#### Models
- The following models were created to represent the database model structure for the website

##### Account Model
- The Account model has a one-to-one relationship with User.
- The model contains the following fields: image, slug, bio
Friends.

#####  Friend Model
- The Friend model is part of the Django allauth library.
- The model allows users to follow another user.

##### Post Model
- The Post model contains information about the travel posts made on the website.
- It contains User as a foreign-key.
- The model contains the following fields: title, slug, suthor, featured_image, exerpt, updated_on, content, created_on, status and likes.

##### Comment Model
- The Post model contains a comment on a post
- It contains Post as a foreign-key.
- The model contains the following fields: name, body, created_on, approved.

## Scope
There is overlap in terms of user stories for the two types of users, and they are described below
### User Stories Potential or Existing Customer
The user stories for the registered user are described as follows: 
- User Story 1.1: As a first time/registered user the navigation bar is displayed with a logo on all pages with a home icon, add post and Register/Login icon on a desktop device.
- User Story 1.2: As a first time/registered user the navigation bar is displayed on all pages with a home icon, add post icon and Register/Login on a mobile/tablet device
- User Story 1.3: As a first time/registered user not logged in, I see a Register/Login link in the nav bar.
- User Story 1.4: As a first time user, I can register by clicking on the Register button. The form asks me for the following details: *****. If I click sign up, account is now registered and I am redirected to the home page, If I click cancel I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 1.4: As a registered user not logged in, I am brought to the Login link if I click on the login button.
- User Story 1.5: As a first time / registered user logged in, I am brought to the home page if I click on the home icon / the TravelPix title or image.
- User Story 5.3: As a first time/ registered user if there are more than six posts on the home page, the page is paginated with 6 posts per page
- User Story 1.7: As a registered user logged in, I see a Logout on the nav bar. 
- User Story 1.9: As a registered user logged in, if I click on the plus icon on the nav bar I am brought to the add post page. The form asks me for the following details: **** If I click post, my post will be added to the home screen and I will be redirected to the home screen. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.9: As a registered user logged in, if I click on my post in on the home page I am directed to the post detail page. I am able to edit my post and delete my post. I am unable to edit and delete posts made by other users.
- User Story 1.10: As a registered user logged in, if I click on the Logout button on the navbar I am brought to the Logout page. If I click Logout I am Logged out. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.21: As a first time / registered user if I encounter an error on the site, I will be navigated to the applicable 404 error page.
- User Story 4.1: As a registered user I can log in to the website using my username and password. Both fields are mandatory. Once correct, I will be navigated to the homepage and a message displayed.
- User Story 5.4: As a first time / registered user if I click on a post I will be navigated to the post detail page.
- User Story 5.5: As a first time / registered user I can view the image, description, the number of likes and view comments (the most recent comment first). If I click the back button I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 5.1: As a registered user logged in I can comment and like users posts. When I add a comment to a post, it is sent to the admin for approval and I am notified.
- User Story 5.14: As a first time / registered user who has not logged into the website, I cannot add a comment or like a post
- User Story 1.1: As a first time / registered user the footer bar is displayed on all pages with copyright and links to the social media pages.


### User Stories Website Owner
The user stories for the website owner(admin) are described as follows: 
There is a lot of overlap between the two user types, the admin user however has more administrative rights throughout but their roles and responsibilities
are defined
- User Story 1.1: As an admin user the navigation bar is displayed with a logo on all pages with a home icon, add post and Register/Login icon on a desktop device.
- User Story 1.2: As an admin user the navigation bar is displayed on all pages with a home icon, add post icon and Register/Login on a mobile/tablet device
- User Story 1.3: As a admin user not logged in, I see a Register/Login link in the nav bar.
- User Story 1.4: As an admin user not logged in, I am brought to the Login link if I click on the login button.
- User Story 1.5: As a user logged in, I am brought to the home page if I click on the home icon / the TravelPix title or image.
- User Story 5.3: As an admin user if there are more than six posts on the home page, the page is paginated with 6 posts per page
- User Story 1.7: As an admin user logged in, I see a Logout on the nav bar. 
- User Story 1.9: As an admin user logged in, if I click on the plus icon on the nav bar I am brought to the add post page. The form asks me for the following details: **** If I click post, my post will be added to the home screen and I will be redirected to the home screen. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.9: As a admin user logged in, if I click on my post in on the home page I am directed to the post detail page. I am able to edit my post and delete my post. I am unable to edit and delete posts made by other users.
- User Story 1.10: As an admin user logged in, if I click on the Logout button on the navbar I am brought to the Logout page. If I click Logout I am Logged out. If I click cancel I am brought back to the homepage.
- User Story 1.21: As an admin user if I encounter an error on the site, I will be navigated to the applicable 404 error page.
- User Story 4.1: As an admin user I can log in to the website using my username and password. Both fields are mandatory. Once correct, I will be navigated to the homepage and a message displayed.
- User Story 5.4: As an admin user if I click on a post I will be navigated to the post detail page.
- User Story 5.5: As an admin user I can view the image, description, the number of likes and view comments (the most recent comment first). If I click the back button I am redirected to the home page.
- User Story 5.1: As an admin user logged in I can comment and like users posts. When I add a comment to a post, it is sent to the admin for approval and I am notified.
- User Story 5.14: As an admin user who has not logged into the website, I cannot add a comment or like a post
- User Story 1.1: As an admin user the footer bar is displayed on all pages with copyright and links to the social media pages.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can view email addresses, who they belong to and if they have been verified in the django admin page. I have the option to add and change an email address.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can view users and groups. I have the option to add and change a user and a group.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change an account.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a comment. I also can approve users comments. Once approved users will be able to see their comment on the post detail page.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a friend. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a post. I can see who created the post, when and if it is published or a draft.
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a site. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change a friend. 
- User Story 13.15: As an admin user I can add, view and change social accounts. 

## Skeleton
### Wireframes
- Wireframes for the website were developed in moqups.com and are linked below for Desktop and Mobile devices.
- The wireframes are stored in GitHub in the png format and are available at the links below(Desktop Mobile wireframes)

#### Desktop 
- [Index](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-19%20at%2017.26.21.png)
- [Post Detail](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.25.37.png)
- [Login](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.28.53.png)
- [Logout](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.31.53.png)
- [Add Post](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.35.30.png)
- [Register](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-21%20at%2017.07.12.png)

#### Mobile
- [Index](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-21%20at%2017.25.16.png)
- [Post Detail](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-21%20at%2019.11.32.png)
- [Login](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.28.53.png)
- [Logout](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.31.53.png)
- [Add Post](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-20%20at%2017.35.30.png)
- [Register](https://github.com/MaeveHughes/TravelPix/blob/main/media/Screenshot%202022-01-21%20at%2017.07.12.png)

## Surface
### Color Palette
I have gone for a simple and minimal design for the website, with predominately blue and peach colours on all pages.
There are five colours in the color palette:
- efebec - Very light peach colour for the background.
- 153184 - Royal blue for the navbar, footer and buttons.
- peachpuff - Peach for text on the blue background.
- fff - White for the form backgrounds.
- 445261 - Black for the text on posts and forms.

I feel the colours complement each other very well, and I choose those colours after testing a number of palettes while making sure the colour palette would not clash with users posts.
